= Installing Roby on Linux systems

In this tutorial, we are creating a functional workspace for roby with all
dependencies. While most of it would be independent of the Linux distribution
chosen, some parts are specific to Debian-based systems (tested on Debian and
Ubuntu 8.10).

=== Setting the environment

As a first step, you should set you environmentvariables. This is done by
the following commands.

  export GEM_HOME=$HOME/gems/
  export ROBYHOME=$HOME/roby
  export RUBYOPT=-rubygems
  export PATH=$PATH:$GEM_HOME/bin:$ROBYHOME/bin
  export RUBYLIB=$RUBYLIB:$ROBYHOME/lib

The +GEM_HOME+ and +ROBYHOME+ should be set to wherever you want these parts to
be installed. It would be wise to append these lines to your ~/.bashrc so that
they are executed each time you start a console.

=== Installing the dependencies

Your workspace must have some packages installed, which are

- Ruby1.8 with rubygems
- Openssl libraries
- Boost libraries
- QT4
- g++
- git

You can install those packages with the following line.

  sudo apt-get install ruby1.8-dev rubygems ruby libopenssl-ruby1.8 libqt4-ruby1.8 g++ libboost-dev git-core

If you don't have administrative rights on your local pc, contact your system 
administrator.

Furthermore the following gems are needed.

- Rake
- Utilrb
- Facets
- ActiveSupport
- FlexMock (only for testing)

These are installed in the folder indicated by +$GEM_HOME+ by

  gem install rake utilrb facets activesupport flexmock

=== Cloning the git repository

All you have to do now is changing into your development folder and clone 
the github repository for roby.

  git clone git://github.com/doudou/roby.git roby

The last parameter (+roby+) is the folder which should be created to put
roby's files in. You can easily adjust this to your needs.

Change into the newly created roby folder.

To work on the development version of roby, check it out with

  git checkout -b next origin/next

Otherwise just stay on the default master branch.
To finally have a running copy of roby, run

  rake setup

to compile roby on your workstation and you're done. Additionally, you can run
  
  rake docs

To generate HTML documentation of Roby and its core plugins. The documentation
is generated in doc/rdoc

=== Staying up to date

To grab the newest updates of roby just change into your robyfolder and run

  git pull

After you merged all possible conflicts between your work and the origin,
you must run

  rake setup

again.
